hey guys thanks for cooking with Tammy
today I'm going to show you how to make
a delicious southern baked macaroni and
cheese yay I need to warn you guys this
recipe is not only rich with delicious
cheeses but it's rich in flavor as well
which in my opinion is definitely the
thing this video is also part of my
holiday series so the amount of
ingredients used is going to be a little
bit more than the usual because most of
us are going to have people coming over
for the holidays so with that being said
guys let's get started the ingredients
that we want to need are 32 ounces of
elbow macaroni or two 16-ounce boxes as
well as 16 ounces of sharp cheddar
cheese eight ounces of pepper jack
cheese and 8 ounces of Velveeta cheese
as well as 6 tablespoons of butter 1
teaspoon of seasonal salt to taste 1
teaspoon paprika for a nice smoky flavor
1 teaspoon of ground black pepper as
well as one teaspoon of garlic powder
and one teaspoon of onion powder 4
tablespoons of all-purpose flour
two and a half cups of half-and-half for
the topping we're also going to need an
additional 8 ounce package of cheddar
cheese as well as eight ounces of pepper
jack cheese keep in mind guys that
you're not limited to the type of
cheeses that you decide to use alrighty
guys moving right along to preparation
at this point in time we're going to
bring our water to a boil and we're
going to add about a tablespoon to two
tablespoons of olive oil and this would
prevent the pasta from sticking together
as well as a couple pinches of salt to
flavor the water adding the elbow
macaroni to the pot we're going to allow
it to boil until it's al dente be sure
to check the back of the box for the al
dente cooking time because every brand
of pasta has a different cooking time
once the pasta is al dente we're going
to add it to the strainer straining it
off and definitely adding cold water to
the pasta to stop the cooking process
placing our pasta aside we're going to
move on to making our cheese sauce in a
deepened skillet we're going to add the
butter once the butter is melted we're
going to add the flour and what we're
doing is we're making what's called a
roux
a roux is used as a thickening agent to
make different sauces stirring
continuously is going to ensure that
there isn't any lumps add seasonings to
the mixture while continuing to stir
after the seasoning is combined at the
half-and-half and continue to stir
once everything is combined we're going
to add the different cheeses to the
mixture and we're going to allow the
cheese to melt while continuing to stir
at this point in time as you can see
everything is beginning to thicken up
which is great
adding the pepper jack cheese to the
mixture
so our cheese sauce is going to have
three flavors going on we're going to
have the sharp taste from the cheddar
cheese as well as a hint of spice from
the pepper jack cheese and the
creaminess not only from the Velveeta
cheese but also from the half-and-half
so all of the cheese is combined
together along with the half-and-half
it's going to create this nice delicious
creamy texture cheese sauce like I said
guys you don't have to limit yourself to
the type of cheeses that I use there are
so many cheese's out there from fontina
cheese to asiago cheese to Gouda cheese
some mozzarella cheese just to name a
few guys so just play around with it
until you find what works best for you
all right guys so I've got my pans lined
up ready to go and I'm going to start by
adding the elbow macaroni to the pan
first
followed by the decadent creamy cheese
sauce using my spatula I'm going to
distribute the cheese onto the pasta
evenly and guys this cheese is so smooth
and creamy all my goodness it literally
spreads like mayonnaise
after the cheesy sauce is added we're
going to top with a combination of
shredded cheddar cheese and pepper jack
cheese
adding more pasta
and repeating the process once again
we're going to add the creamy cheese
sauce on top
using the spatula to spread the cheese
onto the pasta evenly last but not least
we're going to top with a combination of
shredded cheddar cheese as well as
pepper jack cheese
placing the mac and cheese into my 350
degree Fahrenheit preheated oven I'm
going to allow the mac and cheese to
bake for about 25 to 30 minutes or until
the cheese melts alright guys so as you
can see our southern baked macaroni and
cheese is finished baking this mac and
cheese is so gorgeous it could represent
itself as always guys thanks to cooking
with Tammy definitely give this video a
thumbs up subscribe to stay updated with
all my latest videos and most of all
guys enjoy
you